we're here at CES 2024 in the Asus Booth
check out their brand new gaming
monitors that holy crap look at how
pretty she is this right here is the PG
39 wcdm we're going to look at it
because Asus sponsored this video almost
forgot the disclosure there but I'm not
going to forget how freaking good this
thing looks this is an OLED panel it's
made by LG and it goes up to
1,300 nits now that is only for 3% of
the display but that is pretty typical
of this or QD or even some of the less
honest LCDs so you get those like pin
points that are so freaking bright on an
OLED but you also get those just
absolutely perfect blacks oh my God
these things look some nice now this one
specifically is 39 in there will also be
a 34 in version that's essentially the
same thing but a a tiny bit smaller as
I'm sure you have assumed and it has up
to a 240 HZ refresh rate so let's come
in here we've got a bit of Rocket League
booted up I really like rocket League
cuz it's such a vibrant game and it
allows us to really see just how bad I
am for one and also just how nice this
thing looks the amount of contrast on
this
thing is just fantastic I feel like
rocket League wasn't showing off the
like intensity of this display that I
was looking for one moment here here we
go now you obviously cannot tell how
pretty this is cuz you're looking at it
through nfx 3 through YouTube and then
through your monitor but just like the
glint on Buddy's helmet here are so
impressive and like the contrast between
him and like his cap oh it is very nice
now what you might be thinking is that
like this fire r here that's really
bright and making things really bright
consumes a lot of power and a lot of
power creates a lot of heat and OLED
displays really do not like that if they
are getting too bright they will burn in
and they will just start looking bad and
die eventually which is why Asus has
their brand new heat sink assembly now
we talked to them for an hour to try and
get permission to take one of these
apart they wouldn't I am very sad about
it so we'll have to in the future I was
trying to find some marketing BS name
for it but instead it's just the high
efficient custom heat sink for Effective
heat management but what that is doing
is that on the scaler and on the power
delivery they have heat sinks on there
to make sure that no more than about 60°
C is able to make its way to the panel
they also have a massive graphine sheet
across the whole thing to make sure that
you know she's staying just real nice
and cool maybe you know that's that
one's just 240 HZ you don't want that
you want 400 80 this right here is the
pg27 AQ DP it's 1440p 480 HZ and holy
heck buddy in the little spaceship he is
completely clear all the way across like
at 240 he looks pretty good but the
motion Clarity of this guy is absolutely
incredible and it can be even better as
says they're going to have black frame
insertion on these panels although
they're pretty Cy about the details and
you might be wondering why do you want
that so in the past black frame
insertion was used because the pixels
were pretty darn slow they were right
laggy so they would strobe the backlight
so that as the pixel is like you know
changing from one color to the next you
wouldn't see that and you wouldn't get
those smearing effects these days though
that isn't a problem cuz OLED pixels are
just they're right fast the problem
though is your own eyeballs and just
their analog image persistence so if
there's like an image on the display and
it moves your brain and eyes kind of
think of it as one thing whereas if you
put a little black frame in there your
eyes are like oh it's new information
every single time that it does that and
it can look absolutely fantastic now
these do support free sync although they
didn't say if it supports g-sync because
it is currently going through validation
although it might be safe to say it will
in the future but we're not going to
look at that now in the past a lot of
the time if you have a 480 HZ panel it
will look really good in games and
pretty poo poo in everything else cuz
they will sacrifice everything for that
pixel response time not the case here
this thing also has the 1300 nit Peak
brightness 99% DC ip3 coverage and it
just looks very very nice isus said that
for this generation they had to
completely redo how they calibrate their
OLED panels because for one it's just
very different than LCD but also these
things are so hecking bright they had to
just well they don't have very many
details about it cuz you know these
aren't out yet they don't want to give
away too much but uh according to my
eyeballs they did a very good job oh
maybe you're super indecisive do want
want 480 HZ do I want 240 HZ you can
have both right here so right here is
the PG 32
ucdp this also has that LG panel that is
OLED 1300 nits but this one right here
can be either 4K 240 HZ or full HD 480
HZ there also will be the Rog PG 32
ucdm so same thing except this one has a
p but that one right there will have a
QD OLED and it will be only up to 1,000
nits and like you know Samsung's panels
are they even that good anymore now that
we have these oleds I was hoping the
Asus reps would get mad at me but they I
guess just agree that the LG ones are
really fantastic technically in every
way this panel is better now the same
Samsung will have the advantage that
it's going to be launching this month
which will be sooner than the rest of
them which will be more like Lake q1
maybe early Q2 somewhere around there
and uh it kind of shows so this guy
right here currently does not have the
working dual mode so unfortunately we
cannot play around with that but I know
what a lot of you guys might be thinking
is just like why why would you want
those why not just pick one and they
basically said well we can do 480 HZ but
you cannot even drive that even with
like a 4080 4K 480 HZ it is not going to
happen so if you do some Esports titles
and they like sometimes do content
creation or just like want to look at
text that's really nice and clear that's
where that 4K is really going to come
into its own now one pain point of
monitors is always just using a little
OSD in the monitor huge pain in the ARs
so Asus has had this before many
companies had this before but they have
a new and improved OSD within Windows
this allows you to do fun things like
change the brightness will it actually
work oh my God it actually worked this
is all pre-production so I wasn't 100%
sure but almost more importantly is
their OLED tear stuff so of course LG
within the firmware of the panel makes
sure that it's not going to burn in too
much but if you want to just be a little
bit more careful you can come in here
they've got display saver adjusting logo
brightness to make sure that just like
you don't have your windows logo end up
on your screen at all times or you can
manually Force the pixel cleaning what
happens if I click
that don't do
it pixel cleaning fail well it tried now
we don't have final pricing for any of
these although they did say that the
34in version of the PG 34w CDM is going
to be around
$1,300 which when you compare it to
something like the QD OLED monitors that
exists right now is pretty good but it
firmly puts you in like Nicholas plof
Ultra display nerd territory and not
sort of more like Normy display
territory and I was kind of wondering
like normally you get this new Ultra
like yeah it's the most beautiful
display you can get but we haven't
really seen oleds trickle down at all
and like and what once was premium like
3 years ago it doesn't exist as a
midlevel device these day you just keep
on refreshing the most expensive of
those and Asus was saying that there is
a good reason for that and that's mostly
just that OLED customers do not want to
compromise on the image quality at all
and there have been other companies that
had less bright OLED panels that were
returned to them because the customers
were not very happy with the brightness
and the performance compared to their
old LCD ones so they could do stuff like
remove that really expensive custom heat
sink from these but then they either
have to really drop down the brightness
or you just have to live with with a
bunch of burning which I don't think any
of us want so this right here as
economies of scale and stuff start
happening might get a little bit cheaper
but for now it's just for the ultra
nerds that said though the ultr Nerds
are getting some really beautiful
displays just like it was really
beautiful that Asus sponsored this video
hit like get subscribed and just have a
fantastic old day